welcome my name is Sophia and now I'm
going to talk about Saving Private Ryan
an elderly veteran visits the Normandy
American Cemetery and Memorial with his
family at a tombstone he falls to his
knees with emotion the scene then shifts
to the morning of June 6 1944 as
American soldiers land on Omaha Beach as
part of the Normandy invasion they
suffer heavy losses in assaulting
fortified German defensive positions
captain Miller of the 2nd Ranger
Battalion leaves a breakout from the
beach elsewhere on the beach a dead
soldier lies facedown in the bloody surf
his pack is stenciled Ryan s in
Washington DC at the u.s. War Department
General George Marshall learns that
three of the four sons of the Ryan
family were killed in action and that
the fourth son James is with the 101st
Airborne Division somewhere in Normandy
after reading Abraham Lincoln's Bixby
letter aloud Marshall orders Ryan
brought home three days after d-day
Miller receives orders to find Ryan and
bring him back he chooses seven men from
his company t Sgt poor back
privates first-class drivin and caparzo
privates Mellish and Jackson t4 medic
wait plus T five of them an interpreter
from headquarters they move out to new
Ville where they meet a squad of the
101st engaged against the enemy caparzo
is killed by a German sniper who is then
killed by Jackson they locate a private
James Ryan only to learn that he is not
the right one from passing soldiers
Miller learns that Ryan is defending an
important bridge in rimmel near Rommel
Miller decides to neutralize a German
machine gun position at a derelict radar
station despite his men's misgivings
Wade is killed in the skirmish at FM's
urging Miller declines to execute a
surviving German soldier and sets him
free losing confidence in Miller's
leadership reiben declares his intention
to desert prompting a confrontation with
Horvath Miller diffuses the standoff by
disclosing his civilian career as a high
school English teacher about which his
men had set up a betting pool reiben
decides to stay at Bramall Ryan is among
a small group of paratroopers preparing
to defend the key bridge against an
imminent German attack Miller tells Ryan
that his brothers are dead and that he
was ordered to bring him home Ryan is
distressed about his brothers but as
unwilling to leave his post
Miller combines his unit with the
paratroopers in defense of the bridge he
devises a plan to ambush the enemy with
2.30 calibre guns Molotov cocktails
anti-tank mines and improvised satchel
charges made from socks elements of the
second SS Panzer Division arrived with
two Tiger tanks and two martyr tank
destroyers all protected by German
infantry although they inflict heavy
casualties on the Germans most of the
paratroopers along with Jackson Mellish
and Horvath are killed up as immobilized
by fear Miller
attempts to blow up the bridge but is
shot and mortally wounded by the free
German prisoner from the radar station
who had somehow rejoined a fighting unit
Miller crawls to retrieve the bridge
detonator and fires ineffectually with
his pistol at the uncoming tank as the
tank reaches the bridge an American p-51
Mustang flies overhead and destroys the
tank after which American armored units
arrived to rout the remaining Germans
seeing the reinforcements and how the
Germans were now fleeing up and leaps
out from hiding and holds the German
prisoner and his fellow soldiers at
gunpoint before shooting the prisoner
dead and allow
the others to flee reiben and Ryan are
with Miller as he utters his last words
James earned this earn it before dying
from his wounds as Ryan stands over
Miller's body the scene fades to the
elderly veteran who is revealed to be
Ryan and the grave he is standing next
to his revealed to be Millers Ryan asks
his wife if he was worthy of such
sacrifice to which she replies that he
has Ryan salutes Miller's grave before
departing with his family thank you all
for watching don't forget to subscribe
and hit the bell notification for more
of these videos
[Music]